>> Erik Reinert: While that's running,
we're going to take care of the last thing
that we were going to do today anyways
that is setting up the deployment process.
Now we said right now we want to
manage the deployment of the image.
We already know that we can do that.
We can build the image and push it in CI.
That's pretty straightforward.
But we also want to make sure
that we can migrate the database.
Now I want to migrate
my Supabase database.
That's the goal is to make GitHub
actions connect to Supabase and
then run the migrations against it.
So what we want to do is we want to set
up a job that really does the two things
that we said.
We want to set up a job that will build
our image and promote it for us so
that we trigger a deployment, but we also
want to do a job that will connect out
to Supabase and
run the the migrations for us as well.
To do that,
what we're going to do is we're going to
add another job in our GitHub Actions.
We're going to call this one Deploy.
Now, you'll notice that there's a little
bit more going on with this one.
I'll explain it super quickly.
The first thing you'll notice is actually
a brand new key called concurrency.
This is a GitHub Action specific feature
that's really nice where it will make
sure that only one deployment happens at
a given time in the repo, no matter what.
For example, if two merges get made
to master main at the same time,
this one will run first and the other one
will wait until that one is successful or
that one will stop until it fails or
whatever.
But this is a really nice way to make sure
that you don't have multiple deployments
running and overlapping each other and
things like that.
The next thing is, because this is so
credential heavy and so
credential specific,
we're just sharing all the environment
variables for all the job here.
I'm not adding it to just the one step.
I'm doing it for pretty much everything.
Then you'll see that we have our normal
things underneath it like needs and
runs on.
But you'll notice that I have something
commented out here called if so right
now it's commented out, but in the future
this would be uncommented by default.
Can anyone tell me why?
But it only does it whenever
you push the main, exactly.
Yeah, so this is our deploy step, right?
We only want this to run
on the main branch, and
so we're using the if key here,
telling GitHub Actions, hey,
we only want you to run if it's
the main branch effectively, right?
The next thing we want to do really
quickly, and it's actually nice that I've
already got this set up,
is we want to go to GitHub actions, and
we want to add the other secrets and
variables that are needed to run the job.
We know that we need our goose
DB string and our goose driver,
so let's go ahead and add those.
So the same exact value, if we go to ssm,
I'll do this with you because
I got to update it too.
Parameter store fem fd service and
then postgres, this is my postgres URL
that I want so I can copy this.
Let me just grab this really quick,
grab this, and
then I'm just going to paste.
I'm going to create a new value called
goose DB string, save that value in.
This is another reason why it's
helpful to not be behind a network or
anything like that as well,
because we don't have to solve
the problem of how does the runner
access the RDS instance?
Which is the common thing whenever you
do your own self hosted database Here
we don't have to really
worry about that at all.
It will go ahead and
take care of it for us.
Now what we want to do is we want to
commit our new, our new job, right?
So I'm going to do commit,
and we'll say setup,
deploy job nice, and we'll push this up.
Now again, normally this would
not run on this branch, but
because I commented out the, you know,
I commented out the if statement, it will.
So if you've ever, you know, or
if you're in the future, you're like, man,
I need to debug this step.
Just use that, just comment that out,
let it run on your job.
Debug, debug, debug.
Once it's working, remove the comment and
you should be good to go.
So the goal now should be that it's
going to build the image, push it up,
it's going to go to the test job, pull
that image down, build it, or I'm sorry,
not build it, run the test, the migrations
against it, then it's going to use that
exact same image again in the deploy
step to run those migrations as well.
Now what's really dope about
that is now we are testing our
migrations in the pipeline.
Then we're also using the pipeline
to run those exact same migrations
against our Database,
that's really the closed again.
We're wrapping up this phase.
That's the first closed loop that we
just made where now we have a database.
It's managed by migrations, we know that
we should be always making only working
changes to the database, and
we're testing that, right?
The second closed loop will
be the promotion process.
We said earlier that you guys would
have to do the manual part of building
locally and
pushing to trigger that deployment.
Well, we don't wanna do that anymore,
we just want it to be merge and walk away.
And so now when we merge and
walk away, we also get the benefit
of that promotion happening.
We still get to build every time we
make a change, but now the build and
the push are separate from each other and
the promotion to where now it's like,
okay, well, we only promote on main, but
we get to still build in every branch,
we get to test in every branch, and
we know that everything's working.
So there's our job, it's running.
Big money, big money, big money.
Yeah, let's hope, right?
Yeah.
Hey, we worked.
All right, so basically,
we pulled our image,
we pulled that tagged version of it,
we then ran our migration.
So we didn't actually promote our
image until the migrations ran.
That's another thing to note.
We didn't trigger the update
until the migration actually
happened because if
the migration didn't work,
then we wouldn't want to
deploy the service, right?
So we make sure the migrations run first.
It connects out to Supabase,
actually runs the migrations, and
then the last thing it does
is it promotes that image.
And so you can see here,
here's our tag, here's latest, and
then I should be able to.
Now if I go in here,
App runner.
All right, cool.
Then there you go.
You can see I actually already
have my deployment in process.
If I scroll down here,
you can see that it's.
Well, I don't know why it's rollbacking,
but it's starting my deployment and
taking care of my deployment process.
So now, this will go through,
it'll make sure that it's successful, and
then there you go, I just deployed.
So now, we have a complete end to end
CI CD that's running in our pipeline.